Create ui-c8y-1020-40-0-avoid-unnecessary-unavailability-alarms-for-lw-m-2-m-device-graft.md (#2550)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/change-logs/device-management/ui-c8y-1020-40-0-avoid-unnecessary-unavailability-alarms-for-lw-m-2-m-device-graft.md

---
date: ""

> title: Avoid unnecessary unavailability alarms for LwM2M device GRAFT (#7391)

Author: The Claude AI suggested to use the following title:
```suggestion
title: Avoid unnecessary unavailability alarms for LwM2M devices
```

product_area: Device management & connectivity
change_type:
  - value: change-QHu1GdukP
    label: Feature
component:
  - value: component--KIsStyzM
    label: Device Management app
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-pjJiURv9Y
    label: ui-c8y
ticket: DM-3770
version: 1020.40.0
---

> Avoid unnecessary unavailability alarms for LwM2M device GRAFT (#7391)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"Automatic setting of required interval" option is added to LwM2M device's LWM2M Configuration UI Device.
This is made configurable so that unavailability alarms will only be triggered when an LwM2M device is truly unavailable, reducing the number of false alarms.
When this setting is enabled, the LWM2M service automatically sets the interval to device's registration lifetime plus 2 minutes.
When this setting is disabled, user can define a required interval for the device from the Device Info dashboard.
When this setting is set to default, it will use the default behavior of LWM2M service.
```

> Avoid unnecessary unavailability alarms for LwM2M device GRAFT (#7391)

Author: The Claude AI suggested to use the following body:
```suggestion
In some cases, LwM2M devices were incorrectly marked as unavailable, causing unnecessary unavailability alarms to be raised. This change fixes the issue by improving the device availability detection for LwM2M devices. As a result, unavailability alarms will only be triggered when an LwM2M device is truly unavailable, reducing the number of false alarms and providing a more accurate representation of the device's status.
```

> A new **Automatic setting of required interval** option has been added to the configuration of LWM2M devices. For more details see user documentation.

Reviewer: Please add "This setting is configurable so that unavailability alarms will only be triggered when an LWM2M device is truly unavailable, reducing the number of false alarms." part to here also. It helps to understand why it's done.

Reviewer 2: Added.

> A new **Automatic setting of required interval** option has been added to the configuration of LWM2M devices. This setting is configurable so that unavailability alarms will only be triggered when an LWM2M device is truly unavailable, reducing the number of false alarms. For more details see user documentation.

Reviewer 3: Please add the link to the user documentation

Reviewer 2: Added.

---
date: ""

> title: Avoid unnecessary unavailability alarms for LwM2M devices

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: Added new option to avoid unnecessary unavailability alarms for LWM2M devices
```

product_area: Device management & connectivity
change_type:
  - value: change-QHu1GdukP
    label: Feature
component:
  - value: component--KIsStyzM
    label: Device Management app
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-pjJiURv9Y
    label: ui-c8y
ticket: DM-3770
version: 1020.40.0
---

> "Automatic setting of required interval" option is added to LwM2M device's LWM2M Configuration UI Device.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A new **Automatic setting of required interval** option has been added to the configuration of LWM2M devices.
```

> This is made configurable so that unavailability alarms will only be triggered when an LwM2M device is truly unavailable, reducing the number of false alarms.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This setting is configurable so that unavailability alarms will only be triggered when an LWM2M device is truly unavailable, reducing the number of false alarms.
```

> When this setting is enabled, the LWM2M service automatically sets the interval to device's registration lifetime plus 2 minutes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- When this option is enabled, the LWM2M service automatically sets the interval to the device's registration lifetime plus 2 minutes.
```

> When this setting is enabled, the LWM2M service automatically sets the interval to device's registration lifetime plus 2 minutes.

Reviewer 3: These details must actually go into the user documentation not into the release notes.

Reviewer 2: Details moved to user docs.

> When this setting is disabled, user can define a required interval for the device from the Device Info dashboard.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- If disabled, the user can define a required interval for the device on the **Info** tab in the device details.
```

> When this setting is set to default, it will use the default behavior of LWM2M service.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- If set to default, the default behavior of the LWM2M service will be used.
```
